1. Write an SQL query to retrieve the details of employees who have the highest salary within their respective designations, and display the results ordered by designation.
select * from employee e1 where salary =(select(max(salary)) from employee e2  where e1.designation =e2.designation) order by designation;

2. Write an SQL query to retrieve the details of employees who have the lowest salary within their respective designations, and display the results ordered by designation.
select * from employee e1 where salary =(select min(salary) from employee e2 where e1.designation =e2.designation) order by designation;


3. Write an SQL query to retrieve the details of employees who have the highest salary within their respective departments, and display the results ordered by department.

select * from employee e1 where salary =(select max(salary) from employee e2 where e1.department = e2.department) order by department;
select distinct department from employee;

4. Write an SQL query to retrieve the details of employees who have the lowest salary within their respective departments, and display the results ordered by department.

select * from employee e1 where salary =(select min(salary) from employee e2 where e1.department = e2.department) order by department;

5. Write an SQL query to retrieve the details of employees who have received the highest bonus within their respective departments, and display the results ordered by department.
select * from employee e1 where bonus =(Select max(bonus) from employee e2 where e1.department = e2.department) order by department;


6. Write an SQL query to retrieve the details of employees who have received the lowest bonus within their respective departments, and display the results ordered by department.

select * from employee e1 where bonus =(select min(bonus) from employee e2 where e1.department =e2.department) order by department;

7. Write an SQL query to retrieve the details of employees whose salary is greater than the average salary of their respective departments, and display the results ordered by department. 
select * from employee e1 where salary > (select avg(salary) from employee e2 where e1.department =e2.department) order by department; 

8. Write an SQL query to retrieve the details of employees whose salary is less than the average salary of their respective departments, and display the results ordered by department.
select * from employee e1 where salary < (select avg(salary) from employee e2 where e1.department =e2.department) order by department; 













